Project Background and Data Description
The dataset we selected was the Airbnb listings subset.  This data is a random sample from Airbnb hosts specifically with listings in 
Chicago, IL from August 2008 to May 2017. Our projects looks at three explanatory variables to predict price. Our response variable 
is the quantitative variable, price. We chose the quantitative explanatory variable of accommodates which is how many people can be 
accommodated in the Airbnb. Our qualitative explanatory variables are cancellation_policy and property_type. Cancellation_policy has 
three categories: strict, moderate, and flexible. We chose strict as our reference group. Property_type has five categories: house, 
apartment, condominium, townhouse and other. We chose house as our reference group. We had to manipulate the property_type variable 
as the dataset initially had more than five categories for this variable. We decided to categorize all other property types that were 
not as frequent as house, apartment, condominium and townhouse, into the other category.

Scatterplot
This is a scatterplot from Graph Builder including the variables price, accommodates, property_type and cancellation_policy. Price is 
the response variable, shown along the y-axis. Accommodates is the quantitative explanatory variable, shown along the x-axis. 
Property_type is a qualitative explanatory variable, represented by the color in the graph. Cancellation_policy is another 
qualitative explanatory variable, represented by the size of the individual data point dots on the graph. The slopes of each of the 
lines are not that significant in difference. There is no missing data for our model, so this is not a concern for this dataset. 

Results from Multiple Regression Analysis
Here a table comprised of all relevant information for each of the models we constructed. We looked at 5 different models: Full, 
Interaction, Transformation, Quadratic, and Transformation and Interaction. Looking at this table specifically, the Full Model, 
Interaction Model, and Quadratic Model have similar adjusted R^2 values and RMSE values. The Transformation Model and Transformation 
and Interaction Model have similar adjusted R^2 values and RMSE values.

Models
Like mentioned previously, we made five models. The Full Model included the property_type, cancellation_policy and accommodates 
variables with price as a response variable. The Interaction Model included everything from the Full Model with an addition of 
crossing property_type and accommodates to create four interaction terms. The Transformation Model included property_type, 
cancellation_policy, and the natural log transformation of accommodates with a the natural log transformation of price as the 
response variable. The Quadratic Model included everything from the Full Model with an addition of the quadratic term for 
accommodates. The Transformation and Interaction Model was a combination of the Interaction Model and the Transformation Model mentioned. 

Chosen Model
The we chose the Transformation Model as it was our best model of the five. It had the highest adjusted R^2 of 0.38, the lowest 
RMSE of 107.62, the lowest Mallow's Cp of 8, the lowest F-test value of 44.59 with a very small p-value of <0.0001 and has the 
fewest number of variables.

Chosen Model Results
The sample size is 500. The predicted expression from JMP is as listed, predicting the ln(price). In addition, 37.95% of 
variability in ln(price) can be explained by a linear model with property_type, ln(accommodates), and cancellation_policy 
after adjusting for the complexity of the model.

Graphs for Checking Conditions
Here are all the relevant graphs for checking conditions.

Checking Conditions
Independence is met because the data was collected by using a simple random sample, meaning that the Airbnb's did not 
influence one another. Linearity is met because based on the scatterplot in the previous slide, there is not a curve present. 
Normality is met because based on the Normal Quantile plot, the data is within the recommended boundaries. Equal variance is 
met because the Residual by Predicted Plot doesn't show a fan and the means are equally distributed above and below the mean of zero.

Influence and Leverage Plot
High Leverage was calculated from h>2(8/500). Very High Leverage was calculated from h>3(8/500). There are approximately twenty 
outliers that are high leverage. There are approximately ten outliers that are above a standardized residual of 2 and approximately 
five outliers below a standardized residual of -2. There are no outliers with a Cook's D value above 0.5 or 1, so there is not any 
high influence outliers.

Hypothesis Tests
A Partial F-test for the explanatory variable property_type for the Transformation Model was done to determine if property_type 
is a predictor of ln(price). With a test statistic of 3.226 and a p-value of 0.012, it can be concluded that there is strong 
evidence to suggest that the property type is a predictor of ln(price).

Hypothesis Tests
A Partial F-test for the explanatory variable cancellation_policy for the Transformation Model was done to determine if 
cancellation_policy is a predictor of ln(price). With a test statistic of 1.405 and a p-value of 0.246, it can be concluded that 
there is little to no evidence to suggest that the cancellation policy is a predictor of ln(price)

Hypothesis Tests
A Partial F-test for the transformed explanatory variable ln(accommodates) for the Transformation Model was done to determine 
if accommodates is a predictor of ln(price). With a test statistic of 278.944 and a p-value of 6.18e-50, it can be concluded 
that there is overwhelming evidence to suggest that ln(accommodates) is a predictor of ln(price).
